White House briefing I'm a corona virus
pandemic here is the president to the
FDA so the states are very much involved
they have been involved from the
beginning but we're setting it up as
much as we can and the testing
procedures are going well and within a
short period of time all of the private
labs will kick in this never been done
before and it's it's gonna be something
very I think it's gonna be incredible if
it's done properly and these are great
companies these are among the greatest
companies in the world actually so the
state's going to be dealing through
themselves and with local government
local physicians local everybody they're
also dealing with us but we have a
tremendous testing capacity today we're
also announcing a dramatic expansion of
our Medicare telehealth services
Medicare patients can now visit any
doctor by phone or video conference at
no additional cost including with
commonly used services like FaceTime and
Skype a historic breakthrough this has
not been done before either
in addition states of the authority to
recover telehealth services for their
medical patients and by doing this the
patient is not seeing the doctor per se
but they're seeing the doctor so there's
no getting close during this time we
will not enforce applicable HIPAA
penalties so that doctors can greatly
expand care for their patients using
telehealth so the penalties won't be
enforced we encourage everyone to
maximize use of telehealth to limit
exposure to the virus it's been a very
successful method of communication but
never used on a on a scale like we're
going to use at telehealth and you'll be
able to also better maintain Hospital
capacity by doing this earlier this
morning I spoke with executives from
America's fast food industry Wendy's
McDonald's all of the the big ones
Burger King and they were great
we're talking about the pickups in light
of yesterday's guidance you heard to
avoid eating or drinking at bars
restaurants or public food courts we
discuss the important role that the
drive-thru pickup and delivery service
can play in the weeks ahead so that's
happening and they have been fantastic
they have been absolutely fantastic and
they've been doing it already but
they're keeping it open and smaller
staffs very capable people and very
capable companies and they're doing it
pick ups our guidance yesterday urges
Americans to take action for 15 days to
help stem the outbreak so it's a 15-day
period I guess now would say it's a
14-day period it's 15 days from
yesterday and we're asking everyone to
work at home a possible postpone
unnecessary travel and limit social
gatherings to no more than 10 people by
making shared sacrifices and temporary
changes we can protect the health of our
people and we can protect our economy
because I think our economy will come
back very rapidly so it's 15 days from
yesterday we'll see what happens after
that if we do this right our country and
the world frankly but our country can be
rolling again pretty quickly
pretty quickly we have to fight that
invisible enemy that I guess unknown
what we're getting to know what a lot
better today the Senate has taken up
coronavirus legislation that includes
free testing for those who need it as
well as paid sick leave and family
medical leave for work is affected by
the virus we're also committed to
getting small businesses a support that
they need in fact one of the things we
talked about with the fast food
operations we spoke to the chairman and
CEOs of all of the companies but one of
the things we discussed is exactly that
getting small businesses support and
flexibility that they need for
themselves and for their workers and
that's being worked on right now at my
direction secretary minuchin is meeting
today with senators on additional
stimulus packages I can tell you who's
meeting with them late until the night
last night and
for a big part of the day yesterday and
tremendous things are happening there's
great spirit tremendous spirit and I can
say that for Republicans and Democrats I
can say that with respect to Governor
Cuomo we had a great talk this morning
we're both doing a really good job and
we're coordinating it and we agree you
know different states need different
things and we we agree on that 100% but
with a very good talk and I think we're
right down the same track and it's going
to be very successful New York has a
pretty big problem I guess would be the
number one hot spot that's no fault of
anybody's it's just the way it is but
we're working very closely together
we're also getting FEMA very much
involved they've been involved but now
we're getting them to a different level
and we'll have everything ready we're
dealing with the Army Corps of Engineers
should that be necessary we have them
working in some cases on standby in
other cases but my conversation with
Andrew Cuomo was a very very productive
one and a very good one I appreciate
that we're giving relief to affected
industries and small businesses and
we're ensuring that we emerge from this
challenge with the prosperous and
growing economy because that's what's
going to happen it's going to pop one
day we'll be standing possibly up here
we'll say well we won and we're going to
say that sure as you're sitting there
we're gonna say that and we're going to
win and I think we're going to win
faster than people think I hope later
today I'll meet with the leaders from
determined tourism industry as well as
industrial supply retailers and
wholesalers to discuss their critical
roles as you know I met with the
department store people all of the
retail as the big ones including Walmart
and others and it was great meeting
they're stocking up their stores like
they have devastated before we're trying
to get people to actually buy less if
that's possible buy less don't take
everything just buy what you need for a
while it's going to stay open all hours
of the day and they've really been
they've been fantastic we're taking
aggressive action now as one nation and
one family so that America can rebound
stronger
frankly stronger than ever before and we
recognize that while many American
workers can work from home many others
cannot many of our health care providers
first responders and men and women in
the food service and manufacturing are
showing that they're showing up and
standing up to provide us with the goods
and services we need so we want people
to stay home where they can but in many
cases when you talk about food service
and manufacturing certain items in
particular they are they're going in and
they're practicing all of the safety
rules and regulations that we talk about
so with that I'd like to just introduce
our trade vice-president Mike Pence
he'll say a few words and then I'll make
some other introductions thank you very
much Thank You mr. president good
morning it should be very clear to the
American people that President Trump has
initiated not only a whole-of-government
approach but a whole of America approach
and the president's interaction even
today and through the course of this day
with leaders in industry around the
country reflects that we're not only
bringing the full weight of the federal
government to bear but the full way of
the American economy and I know I speak
on behalf of the president when I say
how inspired we are at the way the
American people have stepped up in the
way that American businesses large and
small have stepped up has truly been
inspiring our task force met this
morning
and we continue to focus on president
Trump's priorities of testing prevention
and supplies and in that category I'm
pleased to report that that while
testing is available in all 50 states as
the president just indicated through the
swift action of the FDA at the
encouragement of governors around the
country now state health authorities can
authorize labs in their state and expand
existing testing capabilities but also
in connection with the FDA's action
which you'll be more about in a moment
we now have continued to expand the
public and private partnership that the
president forged with vast commercial
laboratories around the country
increasing access to the high-volume
high throughput coronavirus testing that
is that is greatly expanding access even
as we speak
also our task force received a report
this morning on the progress that the US
Public Health Service and FEMA are
making working closely with state
governments and also partners in the
private sector like CVS Target Walgreens
and Walmart to expand remote testing
sites around the country and we'll have
a full report later this week as those
come online it's important the American
people understand the testing is
happening all over the country but all
of our health experts wanted me to tell
the American people you don't need the
results of testing to know what you
should do and president Trump's 15 day
coronavirus guidelines our advice for
every American in every community
they're the result of the best guidance
of CDC and our health experts and as the
president said we continue to urge every
American
over the next 15 days to put into
practice the principles in the
president's coronavirus guidelines by
every American practicing these
principles we believe that we can slow
the spread of the corona virus in fact
our experts have told our Task Force
that if every American acts on the
president's coronavirus guidelines we
could see a substantial reduction in the
spread of the corona virus but as the
president said it will take all of us to
do it so if you feel sick stay home
if someone in your house tests positive
keep the entire household home
especially if you're a person with an
underlying health condition we urge you
to stay home and practice social
distancing from people though social
gatherings of more than 10 people use
drive-through as the president discussed
with leaders in the industry today and
every American especially practicing
common sense and good hygiene for the
American people as a whole the risk of
serious illness remains low but we're
asking every American to partner with us
in this effort to slow the spread of the
virus and aspects
chillie to be mindful of seniors or
others with serious underlying health
conditions for whom the threat of the
corona virus can be very significant and
very real as I said the president has
continued to push our task force to
bring a whole-of-government a whole of
America approach and we continue to be
inspired the way our nation's governors
and nation businesses are responding we
spoke just yesterday with the leaders of
every broadcast network in America that
will soon be unveiling a public service
campaign using CDC guidelines and
specifically as we work on the issue of
supplies meetings yesterday with
Department of Defense officials about
excess supplies the president and I will
be meeting today to speak about the
supply chain for hospitals we would make
one specific request and that is we
would urge construction companies to
donate their inventory of n95 mass to
your local hospital and forgo additional
orders of those industrial masks because
of what the president asked to be
included in legislation moving through
the Congress today those industrial
masks that they use on construction
sites are perfectly acceptable for
healthcare workers to be protected from
a respiratory disease but we're asking
construction companies that our
president knows very well from his
background we're asking them to donate
their n95 masks to their local hospitals
and also forego making additional orders
it's the president's direction we will
we will continue to do whatever it takes
we'll continue to marshal the best of
the American people the best of all the
people behind me the people behind them
our state and local officials and we
will get through this and we will get
through this together thank you mister
I want to thank Chad Wolfe and Homeland
Security the job they did at the
airports was really incredible they
screened thousands and thousands of
people O'Hare got backed up but a little
bit but they got him out and but
everybody was screened and screened very
carefully they didn't want to rush it I
think was 13 airports and it was it was
an incredible thing then they had a big
surge also from the UK and Ireland and
that went very smoothly but they did a
fantastic job they work long hours and
they did a fantastic job I'd like to
introduce the evolution and then I'm
gonna ask Steve to leave because he's
going to the hill he's been working very
hard with the Senate and with actually
with the house on a very very big bold
package it's gonna be big it's gonna be
bold and the level again of enthusiasm
to get something done I don't think I've
ever seen anything quite like it so
state minuchin please Thank You mr.
president I'd like to announce some very
significant actions that the president
has approved today the first I would say
is earlier today I sent a letter to Fed
Chairman Powell approving his request to
use 13-3 and what that will do is the
Fed will be setting up a special purpose
vehicle which the Treasury will invest
10 billion dollars in from one of our
funds that will enable the Fed to
guarantee the purchase of a 1p one
commercial paper going forward that is a
one trillion dollar market and is
critical to American workers it's
critical to American business and it's
in critical to American savers who have
a lot of that money in money market
funds so we heard loud and clear there
were liquidity issues this is very
significant and will create I don't
think we'll need to use it all but we
have the ability to have the Fed
purchase up to one trillion dollars of
commercial paper is needed that has
already created significant stability in
the market today the second thing I
would say is you know we've previously
talked about
deferring IRS payments the president
earlier this morning authorized me to
announce this program I have previously
announced we would defer 200 billion the
president suggested we increased that to
300 billion which will we will be doing
now let me just be clear on the
specifics we encourage those Americans
who can file their taxes to continue to
file their taxes on April 15th because
for many Americans you will get tax
refunds and we don't want you to lose
out on those tax refunds we want you to
make sure you get them many people do
this electronically which is easy for
them and easy for the IRS if you owe a
payment to the IRS you can defer up to a
million dollars as an individual and the
reason why we're doing a million dollars
is that covers lots of pass throughs and
small businesses and ten million dollars
to corporations interest-free and
penalty free for 90 days all you have to
do is file your taxes you'll
automatically not get charged interest
in penalties now of course any American
has the right to extend their taxes
we're not taking that a right but the
president has asked us to go up to 300
billion dollars that's also an enormous
amount of liquidity in the system the
third thing is the President and I
worked on a very significant economic
stimulus plan thank you for being
available last night and throughout this
morning and I will be presenting that to
the Republicans in the Senate this
morning and also discussing that with
the house we look forward to having
bipartisan support we're now working
with the Senate to pass this legislation
very quickly and these will be payments
to small businesses we've talked about
loan guarantees so two critical
industries such as Airlines and hotels
and we've also talked about a stimulus
package to the American worker you can
think of this as something like business
interruption payments for the American
workers thank you do you have any
questions or the secretary of the
Treasury
say a stimulus package for American
workers do you mean direct payments to
Americans are you talking about a
payroll tax holiday although the
president likes the idea that the
payroll tax holiday I will tell you what
we've heard for many people and the
president has said we can consider this
the payroll tax holiday would get people
money over the next six to eight months
we're looking at sending checks to
Americans immediately and what we've
heard from hardworking Americans many
companies have now shut down whether
it's bars or restaurants Americans need
cash now and the president wants to get
cash now and I mean now in the next two
weeks I will be previewing that with the
Republicans there's some numbers out
there they may be a little bit bigger
than what's in the process we've had
discussions with all the airline CEOs
this week the airline CEOs have had
conversations with the Senate and the
house as the president said I was up
with a subset of the Republican senators
last night I've discussed that with them
I think as you know this is worse than
9/11 for the airline industry this is
they are almost ground to a halt the
president wants to make sure that
although we don't want people to travel
unless it's critical we want to maintain
for critical travel the right to have
domestic travel I'm not gonna comment on
the specifics I will tell you we're very
focused there's a lot of workers the
this is strategically important to us
and we'll be working with Congress on
the airline industry we'll be in good
shape yeah go ahead
thousand dollars tax to every American
it's increasing support Republicans and
some Democrats for that would you
support that going to everyone or would
you support some sort of income
restriction on who gets a check well I
think it's clear we don't need to send
people who make a million dollars a year
checks okay but we like that's one of
the ideas we like we're gonna preview
that today and then we'll be talking
about details afterwards well I think I
think we're going to do something that
gets money to them as quickly as
possible that may not be an accurate way
of doing it because obviously some
people shouldn't be getting checks for
$1,000
and we'll have a pretty good idea by the
end of the day what we're going to be
doing how was the mechanics of this work
and we've been talking about a payroll
tax holiday some five hundred billion
dollars worth was floated to me today
but so how would this idea of sending
people to check work would you would
that be sort of an advance on what they
would pay actually again we want to make
sure Americans get money in their
pockets quickly we want to make sure
small business owners have access to
funds we want to make sure that hotels
airlines we have an entire package will
be laying out those details later today
yeah I have to say this there are four
different ways you can do it that's a
four you can hear me well enough and
magic keep it okay those are very
important people come to think
especially your people look we have four
or five ways we can do it four ways in
particular I think there's a fifth
possibility but there are some very good
ways of getting the money out and
getting it out quickly payroll tax is
one way but it does come over a period
of months many months and we want to do
something much faster than that so I
think we have ways of getting money out
pretty quickly and very accurately we
have to do this now so this is now week
we are gonna work with the Senate who's
in session right now actively we will
continue to have conversations with the
house I've already spoken to Speaker
Pelosi once today this is stuff that
needs to be done now the president has
instructed me that this is no fault to
American workers for medical reasons we
are shutting down parts of this economy
and we're going to use all the tools we
have as I've said and what tools we
don't have we're going back to Congress
but it's a substantial number going big
the expression we could do it two ways
we could keep going back every day or
every week we're going big and that's
where Mitch McConnell that's the way he
wants to go that's the way I want to go
I think we want to get it done and have
a big infusion as opposed to going
through little meetings every every
couple of days we don't want to do it
that way we want to go big go solid the
country is very strong we've never been
so strong and that's what we're going to
be doing we don't want with this
invisible enemy we don't want Airlines
going out of business we don't want
people losing their jobs or not having
money to live when they were doing very
well just four weeks ago so we're going
big and that's the way it'll be and
that's the way everybody seems to like
it on the hill any other questions
today was any type of emergency
assistance discussed on that call a lot
of restaurants have to close even if
they are doing delivery they're not
making as much money as they would with
a full house let me make two comments on
on the restaurants and the president
understands this this was emphasized
this morning first of all we want to
make sure that the states allow the
drive-thru portion of these fast foods
to stay open particularly in a time
period where we're telling people don't
go to restaurants these companies feed a
big part of America and I expect they're
gonna feed a bigger part of America the
second thing they asked me to emphasize
I wasn't going to do it now but as long
as you asked many of these companies
have apps you can order ahead of time
that way when you get there it's as
simple as they'll have it packed they
can give it to you as social distancing
and it'll be very fast so we expect that
they will be able to feed a large part
of the population and in regards to
support I will say a lot of these
businesses are small businesses or
companies franchisees 500 or less and we
have a specific program we'll be
unveiling that helps all businesses
small and medium-sized businesses of
five hundred and Lessing's
question regarding of Marriott
corporation that announced that it is
furloughing thousands of individuals
because of the impacts of the
coronavirus rule your legislation I hope
so that's one of the reasons why we got
to act very quickly because we
understand whether it's the airlines
hotels for good reasons to protect the
United States on medical issues these
businesses are shut down and the
president wants to make sure as I've
said we will use all the powers we have
you saw this today trillion dollars of
potential liquidity into the market and
the powers we don't have we're going to
Congress and I will say there's a lot of
bipartisan support for these issues so
I'm going to apologize because I have to
go deal with some other I do want to
comment on this okay we absolutely
believe in keeping the markets open okay
Americans need to know they have access
to their money after September 11th the
only reason why the markets were closed
was because the technology was disrupted
I've been on the phone with the major
banks with the New York Stock Exchange
everybody wants to keep it open we may
get to a point where we shorten the
hours if that's something they need to
do but Americans should know that we are
going to do everything to make sure that
they have access to their money at their
banks to the money in their 401ks and to
the money in stocks so I want to just be
very clear we intend to keep the markets
open and the banks are record-setting
Slone so we have we have that which is a
much different event than what we had
not so long ago
[Music]
mr. Chun mr. president you mentioned the
army corps of engineers of the
conversation with Governor Cuomo people
used in New York is going to run out of
hospital beds are you prepared to
mobilize your kness to increase capacity
yes we're starting to we're studying the
process and it's a process we hope it's
not going to be necessary but it could
be necessary the state is working on it
very hard themselves but we'll probably
supplement what they're doing and given
that many of the precursors for our
pharmaceuticals come from China and
there have been destroyed as there have
been supply disruption that supply chain
has been broken to some degree you
expect that we could run into a shortage
of prescription drugs no I don't see
that at all and I think China has every
incentive to make sure that things work
well Jonah wants to make sure that
things work very well they have every
incentive to do so Jeff the governor of
Ohio has called off the election that
was supposed to happen today the primary
election do you agree with that decision
and what steps are you taking to ensure
that elections going forward if this
pandemic I continues that elections will
be able to happen including the course
to think one of the fall well the
governor Ohio is doing a great job he
called that off and we'll see what
happens as a court case and it hasn't
been fully determined yet but if he
called it off I could understand that
because you know he's definitely
somebody that knows what he's doing
we'll be seeing what very soon you know
they're going by the rule of ten as
opposed to 50 and it's pretty tough I
would say probably you could violate
that if you wanted to for an election I
just think an election is a very special
thing he's going to chose he chose a
different date I think a date sometime
in June but that would be a decision
that would be made by him he felt it was
necessary the courts are somebody's
challenging it so the courts will
ultimately decide elections we're still
in this situation
from now two months ya know what I'm
doing Jones very simple we're getting
rid of this virus that's what we're
doing that's the best thing we can do by
the way for the markets for everything
it's very simple very simple solution we
want to get rid of it we want to have
very as few deaths as possible this is a
horrible thing you look at what's going
on with Italy we don't want to be in a
position like that but a much larger
because we're a much larger country we
don't want to be there and I think we've
done really well I think we've done well
I think the states have done well we're
all working together the best thing we
can do is get rid of the virus once
that's gone
it's gonna pop back like nobody's ever
seen before that's my opinion but I
think it'll pop back like nobody's ever
seen before please facilities put the
Army Corps of Engineers build and also
what specific measures are you taking to
try to increase the number of
ventilators in the fight we've ordered
massive numbers of ventilators we have
by any normal standards we have a lot of
respirators ventilators we have
tremendous amounts of equipment but
compared to what we're talking about
here this has never been done before and
yesterday I gave the governor is the
right to go order directly if they want
if they feel they can do it faster then
going through the federal government now
we've knocked out all of the bureaucracy
it's very direct but it's still always
faster to order directly and I gave them
that was totally misinterpreted by the
New York Times on purpose unfortunately
but the the but it's very important yes
please a president directed us to work
with the Department of Defense there's
two ways that DoD can be helpful in
terms of expanding medical capacity I
know the governor of New York has asked
us to look at the Army Corps of engineer
which could perhaps renovate existing
buildings but the president also has us
inventory especially we spoke with a
Governor Inslee yesterday in Washington
State we have resources in that part of
the country that we could move and as
governor's make these requests we will
process them bring them to the president
but there are two different lanes that
VOD can provide in addition to many
medical supplies to augment our national
reserves and the president has tasked us
to to evaluate and make available and to
consider every every request from
governor's for either field hospitals
expanding facilities or the Army Corps
of engineer that could retrofit existing
buildings
the Army Corps is very prepared to do as
we say and we're looking at where it's
going but and they do call them mash
hospitals but the field hospitals go
very quickly there we have them we have
all of this equipment in stock and we're
looking at different sites and a few
different locations and we're not going
to need them in West Virginia where so
far I guess they have none
still none still none West Virginia Big
Jim the governor's you must be doing a
good job
that's what's reported well that's all
that I just see West Virginia is the
only one that has no cases so obviously
that's being treated differently than in
New York or Nora California
different parts of California I do say
this so the the Army Corps of Engineers
is ready willing and able we have to
give them to go ahead if we find that
it's going to be necessary we think we
can have quite a few units up very
rapidly I'm gonna work with Governor
Cuomo I'm going to work with a number of
the governor's governor Newsom has been
very generous and is in his words and
I'm being generous to him to because
we're all working together very well and
and I think a lot a lot of very positive
things have taken place we're talking to
California about different sites but we
can we can have a lot of units up fairly
quickly if we think we need them I think
what I'll do is I might ask Seema to say
a few words on the telehealth and then
we can get back to this place Sheila
Thank You mr. president
and as the president announced earlier
we are doing a dramatic expansion of
what's known as telehealth for our 62
million Medicare beneficiaries who are
amongst the most vulnerable to the
corona virus and we're acting in accord
with the appropriations bill that was
signed
March 6 as well as the president's
emergency declaration last week and this
action is a part of our broader effort
to ensure that government requirements
rules and regulations don't get in the
way of patient care during an emergency
and today's announcement builds on the
significant progress of the president
has already made over the past three
years around telehealth services and
while we have allowed for virtual
check-ins full telehealth benefits have
been restricted to those living in rural
areas established patients and just for
those brief visits but no longer
Medicare beneficiaries across the nation
no matter where they live will now be
able to receive a wide range of services
via telehealth without ever having to
leave home and these services can also
be provided in a variety of settings
including nursing homes hospital
outpatient departments and more and
thanks to the leadership of HHS will
also be temporarily relaxing certain
HIPPA requirements so that doctors can
provide telehealth with their own phones
and we'll be using enforcement
discretion when it comes to collecting
co-pays so that cost won't be a barrier
this is a part of our larger efforts
around mitigation and as we are
encouraging Americans to stay home
whenever possible we don't want our
Medicare policies getting in the way and
so consider the implications of this
perhaps an elderly patient with diabetes
needs routine checkup and it says
nothing to do with the coronavirus and
so with our new telehealth benefits this
person who's not really who's at risk
for the corona virus doesn't have to
venture outside their home they can talk
to their doctor via Skype and they don't
have to risk exposure to the virus and
they can receive that care from the
safety of their own home it could be
another Medicare recipient who's
experiencing mild flu-like symptoms and
instead of leaving the house and sitting
in a waiting room full of other
vulnerable people they can also receive
advice from their doctor from their home
and this shift is very important for
clinicians and providers who over the
coming weeks will face considerable
strain on their time and resources and
now Medicare patients who don't
absolutely need to come in to an office
won't have to and this allows the
healthcare system to prioritize for care
for those that are more that have more
needs or in dire need and preserves
protective equipment as well
state Medicaid agencies can also provide
telehealth services without federal
approval and so we're asking all states
to make this available as well and we've
also asked private insurance companies
to expand their telehealth benefits and
make it clear to their providers and
their members what they cover as our
nation seeks to balance the twin
imperatives of getting Americans the
care that they need during this outbreak
and limiting the spread of the virus the
impact of this historic action simply
cannot be overstated
in an emergency those on the front lines
shouldn't have to worry about federal
rules and red tape hamstringing them
when they need flexibility above all
else and we're doing everything in our
power to make sure that that doesn't
happen I also just want to briefly
mention that because of the president's
emergency declaration we do have the
ability to provide a lot of Medicaid
waivers and Florida was the first state
to be approved we were able to do that
in a matter of days thank you any
questions
where do senior citizens go for
instructions on how to do the Telo they
should call their doctor's office and
their doctor's office can tell them how
to do that
I'm also you know there may be some of
our Medicare members that may not have
access to equipment so we're asking
family members but to help with this but
also respecting the requirements around
social distancing and if any of those
family members or neighbors have
symptoms they should obviously stay away
be posting memorisation that's correct I
used way to do it if you post and they
can also call our 1-800 Medicare number
and they can also get information those
phone lines are open thank you
we're going like dr. Burks well thank
you very much as we talked about earlier
this week the commercial system is
rapidly advancing in the testing
capabilities as of today our public
health laboratories meaning the CDC and
the public health labs have reported out
30 1878 tests so almost 32,000 tests the
clinical laboratories the association of
clinical laboratories have reported out
20 27,000 tests and most importantly of
those 27,000 during the cumulative
period of time 8200 of them were
yesterday this is showing the dramatic
ramp as the high throughput comes in we
don't have the numbers this morning from
the American Hospital Association which
means all the individual Hospital
laboratories we will have that up coming
in the next day or so and then
ambassador birx will have this whole
process a fixed under with the
legislation that everything will roll up
into a common reporting probably by the
end of next week in terms of our drive
through laboratories again these are
blossoming all over the country by
individual states the ones that we are
heavily involved in and really pushing
equipment to we expect over the next few
days to begin setting up 47 of these in
approximately 12 states the material is
already palletized and being shipped to
the locations most cities have the
specific locations some do not but it's
still going to a central receiving and
we know that we'll be deploying at least
140 commissioned Corps officers about
half of the sites have reported their
requirements about a hundred and forty
officers will be going we expect that to
go up so this is going on the way we
expected we did a trial site yesterday
with a full mobile unit for driving
through with full PPE we had a lot of
kinks in the system as you can expect
that's why we do a test before we go out
into the field don't expect these to be
a hundred percent perfect the moment
they come they're going to be adapted to
the state the local situation but we're
very
confident that these will add testing to
the already very robust health care
system and commercial system Thank You
mr. president
and this has never been done before and
it sets a great roadmap for future
should we have something like this in
the future I hope we don't but it's
never been done before and they've done
an incredible job and again we're
working with the states and relying on
the states we have to because they they
have its point of sale that's point of
sight and we're in I think just about
every instance getting along really well
with the with the states if I could dr.
Burks if you could say a couple of words
please so I think what you've been
hearing from us is to find solutions
that are high-quality and sustainable
based on the front line workers and
governor's request and I those come in
on the governor's call we've been
immediately responsive to those and
that's the the level of red tape and
bureaucracy that we have removed I think
that point about sustainability and
quality is very important because as the
president says we're creating a roadmap
for a different level of functionality
for future pandemics our flu pandemic
preparedness plan was a plan now we're
seeing where we have to revise where we
have to create new avenues of research
and new avenues of work to really ensure
that the need of the American people can
be reached
we were adamant about having a high
quality test based on our commercial
vendors over the next few months you
will begin to see that other tests that
were utilized around the world we're not
of the same quality resulting in false
positives and potentially false
negatives these tests were studied and
studied by the FDA to really ensure that
they are that level of quality and we've
given the states the permission to
ensure that same level of quality now I
wanted to say one minute on the testing
testing should not be used as an
assessment of your risk we are asking
every single American no matter what
your generation from Z and up to X and
Millennials in between to really ensure
that your
following these guidelines we here every
night of people who are not in work
moving that time into bars and other
areas of large gatherings if we continue
with that process we will fail in
containing this virus so every single
generation has a role to play we're
asking our older generation to stay in
their homes and we're asking the younger
generations to support them in social
contacting through videos and other
Skype type functions or just the simple
telephone we're asking the younger
generations to stop going out in public
places to bars and restaurants and
spreading a symptomatic virus onto
countertops and knobs and grocery stores
and grocery carts I heard an innovation
last night and this morning again on the
news I really want to applaud the
private sector who are now creating
senior only shopping times I think
that's extraordinary I think that shows
what America brings and I think other
countries will learn from us about how
to really protect seniors in this type
of way I'm hoping that carries through
to next year when we have our flu
epidemic where we can really have a very
different prototype for a file of the
amount of mortality that we have during
flu that we never talked about anywhere
from 15,000 to 45,000 individuals are
lost every year if we learn how to do
this well and sustain some of those core
changes we can change the way
respiratory viruses not only for this
but the future affect Americans it's a
big thing a question on the clinical
data so we've had now early 5,000 people
test positive we've had 90 deaths or so
when are we going to know the data of
who those people are who has been
infected what the ages are what the
pre-existing conditions are how serious
it was both for those who have been
tested positive but also those who have
died
well you're singing my sheet of music
I'm very data oriented so thank you for
bringing up this issue of data I really
want to applaud HHS we had a discussion
about this several days ago they've made
calls in to Seattle and California to
really understand that and also
importantly to understand how many of
their patients needed ventilators how
many of them needed oxygen support how
many of them needed and what they needed
could we predict early someone who was
going to have a more difficult course
these are all the questions we're asking
right and answering right now we did get
an early report back from Santa Clara
and Seattle we're digesting it we just
got it this morning we're looking at
that carefully because we think that
roadmap is very important to other
communities we have not discussed this
with New York yet we do know from other
countries and that all is available
online that profile you can see that
mortality under 30 is extraordinarily
low the mortality across the board
outside of Wuhan is now settling
somewhere around 0.7 but that should not
be reassuring because it's much higher
in people with pre-existing medical
conditions even if young and people that
are older with pre-existing medical
conditions and so we still want every
American focused on doing what they can
do today to change the course of this
pandemic to making that data public so
we will all know we're committed not
only to making it public but to have a
website that everyone can see in
real-time
there you are signaling a much more
aggressive posture toward containment
mitigation now in many states have been
very aggressive but there is a small
number of states that has not have not
issued public guidance to their
residents is it important for the
success of the effort that 100% of the
states be forward leaning on this and if
so mr. president what would be your
message to those states that have not
so that's why the vice president and the
president yesterday issued those
critical guidelines as I said this
morning on Fox and Friends you can look
at them as with guidelines you can look
at our requirements and you can look at
him as the president asking every
American in every state to follow those
that's why we put them out at the
federal level we wanted to make sure
every American knew what they could do
today to change the course of this
epidemic
I think it's empowering I think it says
all of us have a social responsibility
to each other and that's why we believe
that every mayor and every governor
should be instituting these guidelines
that came from the White House and the
President of the United States and we've
been very tough in those states I know
exactly who you're talking to
we've been very tough in them thank you
you've been telling us for days now that
millions of tests have been sent out so
why have fewer than 60,000 people
actually been tested I think you will
see different numbers this week you
heard just at 8,000 remember all of
these tests the high-speed tests were
approved last Friday last Friday night
and last Thursday night I think if I
could talk to thermo Fisher and the
other groups that have these platforms
out there do not rely on a pull
technology push out those tests because
we can only make them available groups
have to order them so I we've been
talking to thermo Fisher one of the key
platforms to push out tests based on
need and not wait for orders that's a
great question I know part of it is
getting the test out right now I think
the Admiral and others are working on
getting the the issues related to
getting the tests conducted obviously
that does take time he is working on
innovative solutions that are creative
and sustainable that will be a game
changer in testing but we don't have the
data yet this is a critical comparator
can you do it yourself can you actually
sample yourself these these are the
kinds of things we're working on right
now and he's getting the data
and the states are actually doing a lot
of us the governor's and the states are
doing a lot of it with even our tests
okay thank you can you give us a sense
of how long these tough new restrictions
will need to be in place until we start
to see the rate of this virus going down
and also can you speak to this study
that as many as 2.2 million people in
the United States could die if there
weren't this type of action by the
government taken I think you know models
are models and they're based on input
and they're based on infectiousness
without any controls I can tell you
we've never seen that level of
infections that modeled up to that 2.2
million and mortality so we are looking
at that we are having a particularly
model meeting tomorrow I think that's
really going to be important I've dealt
with a lot of modelers in my time
they're wonderful people but they all
have their favorite inputs and they all
have their favorite integration
functions so we're evaluating all of
those so we can integrate and create the
best model for the United States based
on the best data and that first set of
recommendations you saw were based on
what we could do today to prevent
anything that looks like that if I could
just say one other thing to the
hospitals and dentists out there things
that don't need to be done over the next
two weeks don't get it done if you're a
person with an electric cert elective
surgery you don't want to go into a
hospital right now there's a lot of
distraction there's a lot of people
doing a lot of other things to save
people's lives so let's all be
responsible and cancel things that we
can cancel to really free up hospital
beds in space and then let's do
everything that we can to ensure that we
don't need the ventilators because we've
protected the people who would have
needed to use them
ability of more actions like for example
limiting travel within the United States
argument it's possible it's possible
we'll see how it goes a lot of it's been
great cooperation with local governments
states we'll see how it goes it's going
it's going right now pretty well yeah
place good defense production act to get
more of those medical supplies different
well we're able to do that we have two
right now we haven't had two but it's
certainly ready if I want it we can do
it very quickly we've studied it very
closely over two weeks ago actually
we'll make that decision pretty quickly
if we need it we hope we don't need it
too big step you know when you save the
stage in particular three states need
some help and some states you know have
two people three people no people in the
case of again West Virginia so we're
looking at it very closely we've taken
it apart fifteen different ways it's a
very difficult thing to do it's a very
big step and if we need that step we'll
take it okay first question a lot of
people have got travelled to places that
are considered hot spots yeah Caribbean
Mexico that sort of thing over the next
few weeks would you recommend that they
follow through with those plans I would
just say enjoy your home stay I would
just say right now we we have to get
this problem fixed and then we'll get
back into business real really quick
will open up our country will open up
our society the world will hopefully
open up we see areas of the world that
are that haven't done well and we see
areas that are doing very well and I
would put us in the category of doing
very well for a country so big I think
that I would recommend that they just
enjoy their living room I'm not happy
with those people if they're not but you
know those people are being shouted down
by other people they know they're being
it's almost like self policing people
went in there are a couple of instances
I guess probably more than a couple
where
people are not happy when they see
others doing what they're not supposed
to be done we have to get rid of this we
have to win this war
and ideally quickly quickly there's the
longer it takes it's not a good
situation and I'm not even talking about
the economy I'm talking about the lives
of a lot of people yeah please did yeah
I think it's all the work in progress
what President Trump has made clear to
industries around the country is that
we're gonna do whatever it takes we
understand this is an extraordinary
moment in the life of our nation it's
the reason why the president brought in
leaders of the financial sector airline
industry he'll meet with all new
additional industry leaders today in
tourism and hospitality but he has
tasked the Secretary of the Treasury to
work with members of Congress in both
parties to make sure that we construct
the kind of economic support that will
allow those industries to weather the
period of the coronavirus and then to
come back stronger than ever before
we've had we've had such incredible I
don't know it's almost the word spirit
is the best word it's like a spirit the
banks have come in and the banks are
doing things that they would have never
done they're working on extensions and
lots of things that they wouldn't have
done copays with regard to the insurance
companies I mean for them to be doing
what they're doing you know all about
the co-pays they would have never done
that and they did it they were in my
office they I would say the 11 biggest
in this country I guess probably the 11
biggest of the world the big ones all
the big ones and they they did things on
copay that nobody would be doing that
they wouldn't have done in a million
years but they're doing it there's a
great spirit going on right down with
the country so you want to yes please
dr. pouchy
dr. pouchy you said you like being
accused of overreacting because that is
an indication we may be doing things
necessary to beat this
bend the curve how long do you think it
will take for you to be confident that
yes we're bending the curve or no or not
you know I can't give you a firm number
on that because the dynamics of
outbreaks in some respects are
predictable historically they do this
and that we don't know because this is
really unprecedented I mean of all the
outbreaks that I've been involved with
over the last at least 36 years and then
going historically back we've never had
a situation where the mobilization of
all the different components travel
restrictions internal the containment
mitigation financial assistance public
health assistant testing so we don't
really know but the one thing I do know
I do know that if you look at models
with all of their vice institutes of
models is that when you have input into
the kinds of mitigations and things that
we're doing we're gonna see a hump
instead of a peak I would be really
surprised if all the things that we're
doing and and this is really a a
comprehensive approach I was struck as I
was listening to everyone make their
their presentations that you know I'm a
scientist I'm a health person and I'm a
physician who sees patients so I look at
it from one particular standpoint but
what I'm being impressed by is that this
is really a comprehensive thing that has
multiple components to that all of them
got to succeed if we're gonna get to
that end point that I've described
multiple times from this podium so I
hope that if everyone does their job
we're gonna be able to give you a number
and say you know we've seen that
inflection and we're coming down I would
hesitate to do it now to be honest with
you because it might be misleading and I
don't want to be misleading I just want
to say one other thing because I heard
dr. Berg say it and I think we need to
say it over and over again when I was
young a long time ago I felt that I was
invulnerable the way I think many of us
feel were invulnerable and when we're
asking the young people to help us with
this mitigation strategy by staying out
of
staying out of the restaurants really
trying to distance yourself don't get
the attitude well I'm young I'm
invulnerable you are well in some
respects you're certainly less
vulnerable than I am
however which you might inadvertently do
and I know you don't want to do that
you don't want to put your loved ones at
risk particularly the ones who are
elderly and the ones who have
compromised conditions we can't do this
without the young people cooperating
please cooperate you know that question
keeps coming up and I'm not gonna evade
the question but I want to make a point
we tend to think that we're not gonna be
able to mitigate or contain without
testing they complement each other in
some respects but they're separate
channels even if we had no testing we
should be doing what we're doing now the
question are asking so I won't evade it
is specifically would it be important
outside of a doctor patient coming in
together of knowing what's out there
what might be under the radar screen the
answer to your question is yes so let me
tell you what the CDC is doing right now
they're going out there and part of
their program is to get a feel for what
is there that wasn't initially thought
to be corona virus that was thought to
be something else when you do that
you're also going to get a feel of what
the penetrance is in society so we are
heading with the high-throughput things
that you've been hearing about to get an
answer to your question
he believes that cool CFP in terms of
infection in 45 days you know it's
possible I mean I I know that the
governor has been really I I believe
doing a really good job of trying to
stay ahead of this 45 days is not
unreasonable you have to be careful when
you get a number
you own the number and then if the
number doesn't come out you're in
trouble and that's the reason why from
our standpoint from the federal
government we're talking about a range
so within that range it isn't like you
want to be correct for the sake of being
correct to something and then have to
back off okay so what's happening I mean
if you look as metaphor it's kind of
like a race against a virus if left to
its own devices will do this and us
trying to somehow blunt that now you
could see the virus going up and up and
your affect your your work what you're
trying to do may actually be having an
effect but you may not see it because
it'll still be going up and as you're
trying to implement your your
interference with the virus you may not
realize that you actually interfere me
and I'll say wait a minute it's still
going up what's going on you've done
nothing but you don't know whether it
would do this versus that so the answer
to your question it probably would be
several weeks and maybe longer before we
know whether we're having an effect it
may be at the end of the day we'll see a
curve that would have been way way up
but I wouldn't like put us to task every
few days what wait a minute it's going
up is it working or not that would be
really misleading if we do that
guidelines which were one of those
guidelines was a recommendation against
gatherings of ten or more people and
today the governor of Alabama issued her
own guidelines what is your
recommendation for people of Alabama
people across all of the country as far
as the guidelines that were announced
yesterday by the family okay so the one
thing we don't want to do is to get hung
up on the difference between ten and
twenty five I think you might agree with
that when we give guidelines they're
only guidelines we sit down we look at
the data as dr. Burke said we're
data-driven and we say on different
models ten looks good if someone wants
to do 25 we're not gonna fault them but
if someone wants to come to us and ask
us what we think the best is we stand by
the numbers it isn't perfect it isn't
precise math it's assumptions and it's
data that make you get your decision but
this is the United States of America
there's a lot of free enterprise there
people do their own thing and quite
frankly I don't think there's a big deal
difference between ten and twenty five
we got many many more important things
to worry about than that difference said
that there's an idea of floating around
the administration to cut taxes for
companies who would be bringing their
supply chickens back to United States he
said he specifically liked immediate
hundred percent right Oscar structures
equipment he said you haven't endorsed
that yet would you endorse about you
looking at many ideas that's one of them
frankly and we're looking at creating
incentives for companies not only that
type of company but other companies
we're also looking to help companies
such as the airline industry within the
airline industry and we'll be doing that
we will be doing that this is not their
fault
and they've been very understanding
actually and we're gonna be helping them
we will have a very powerful airline
industry and it'll start up as soon as
this is over we'll we'll have those
we'll have those planes ready to go so
we have to help them during the short
term with very important difficult
choice whether it's shutting down
society or overwhelming the healthcare
place down is that something that we
look at every model we've relied on the
very talented people and there's no
better team that the people be behind me
and I will say that all of the people
that have done those models are all in
constant touch with dr. Burks and Tony
and everybody that you've been hearing
so much from over the last couple of
weeks we've looked at we've looked at
many different models and the model we
have is we want to save a lot of lives
we want to save a lot of lives if we get
too steep in that curve you're gonna
lose a lot of lives perhaps
unnecessarily now we're gonna find out
if everything has a risk we're going to
see but if people do what we're telling
them to do what we're asking them to do
you're gonna see the saving of a lot of
lives now Boris in UK yesterday you saw
what happened it looked like they were
gonna get different way but that he went
away of similar I guess simpler I don't
know exactly but I would say we had a
conversation yesterday similar to what
we're doing so a lot of people seem to
think this is going to be we are we are
looking to save the maximum number of
lives everything else is going to come
back a life is never going to come back
but everything else our economy is gonna
come roaring back you're gonna know
we're gonna know we're gonna all know
that day if somebody was asking about
the day when will you know when will you
know we're gonna you know all of a
sudden we're gonna say wow that's
looking good that's looking good that's
looking good and we're gonna be on the
other side of the curve and that's a day
that we look forward to okay
you saw this week though that that made
you decide that yes now at the time to
implement these much more stringent
social distancing measures oh I don't
think so this is where we were going I
really think from the beginning this is
where we were going this is what we had
in mind
we were just we're just going step by
step that was the next step the next
logical step
as dr. foutch she said and I think very
importantly one of the most important
things when you write the history of
this was the fact that we closed it down
to China and Europe but in particular
China we closed it down to China the
source very very early very very early
far earlier than even the great
professionals wanted to do and I think
in the end that's going to be but that
will have saved a tremendous don't some
people did note that your tone seemed
more somber yesterday you talked about
that August timeline did you see a
projection some people thought perhaps
that two million potentially
I may be prompted part of that was there
a shift in tone I didn't think I mean I
have seen that where people actually
liked it but I didn't feel different
I've always known this is a this is a
real this is a pandemic I felt it was a
pandemic long before it was called a
pandemic all you had to do is look at
other countries I think now it's in
almost 120 countries all over the world
no I've always viewed it as very serious
there was no difference yesterday from
days before I feel the tone is similar
but some people said it wasn't I mean I
don't think in terms of recession I
think in terms of getting it out because
when we're finished with the virus we
will win we will win and when that
victory takes place our economy is going
to go through the roof it is so pent up
it is so built up it is so ready to go
in a in an upward direction but we have
to knock out this enemy this is a really
tough enemy but we have to knock out all
of us that's all of us so I don't think
in terms of recession not recession it's
words we have to knock out this and we
will have an economy I actually think
we'll have an economy like we've never
had before it's all pent up I think the
question about about the actions that
the president authorized beginning in
January when he took the unprecedented
step of suspending all travel from China
the efforts to issue travel advisories
for portions of Italy and South Korea
and then to begin screening all the
passengers the efforts regarding
suspending travel for Europe and what
went into effect at midnight last night
adding the UK and Ireland - that have
all been informed by the experts that
are surrounding us what the president
asked us to do from the very beginning
as dr. Burks and dr. Fauci often say is
let's follow the data bring the
president the best options in response
to what is actually happening on the
ground but but with regard to
yesterday's a 15 day slow the spread
plan our team unanimously brought to the
president these
very strong recommendations for every
American because we truly believe we are
at a point in this epidemic in our
country when we can reduce the number of
people that actually are exposed to or
contract the coronavirus but will
continue to bring the best data the best
evidence and the best recommendations
frankly of the best health experts in
the world and the president will
continue to make decisions that put the
health of America first
in other words reduce the number of
people that die that's what we're trying
to do and when you do the steep curve a
lot of people are gonna die
a lot of people you know the worst ever
they say 1918 and I don't have to go
into the numbers but they were
unbelievable numbers had they known and
had they done what we had now it would
have been a very much different story it
would still be tragic but it would have
been a very much different but that was
that was the one that people write about
that was an incredible that was an
incredible pandemic like we haven't seen
but we have we have done something that
I hope hopefully we will all have made
the right moves we're all in this
together including you and we want to
see fair press and and I tell you what
it's been generally speaking I think
it's been it's been a great thing to see
it it's been very very the the getting
along with Democrats getting along with
Republicans for the Democrats themselves
there's been a lot of spirit there's
been a lot of things happening that I
haven't seen happen in the first almost
now three and a half years it's been
very nice to see that's one of the good
things but what really the good thing is
we have to knock it out we have to win
and we want to keep that slope as low as
possible because that's a lot of lives
in there let's go back there somebody
that then you get one
this had a huge impact on China's
economy as well have you ever seen any
indication from officials there that
they're going to have trouble meeting
the purchase agreements part of the
things one deal particularly the
agricultural life
well they need our product very badly
and no I haven't received any one good
relationship with China I have not
received anything to that no we have a
signed agreement they're going to be
buying and they have been buying a lot
of product over text and she talked
about options available to the United
States including VA hospitals right
Department of Defense medical treatment
facilities and even hospital ships at
what point do you tap in to those
options well I'll know the point and by
speaking with Governor Cuomo and other
governors we're gonna know the point
it's gotta be different for New York
that it's gonna be from you know Iowa or
from Idaho or from West Virginia frankly
or for you know it's it's different New
York he's got a big problem the state of
Washington is a big problem California
has some big problems everyone's doing a
good job but we're gonna know when it
will be and I believe it'll be more spot
that it will be it's not going to be the
whole thing it's going to be spots there
are some hot spots that are in trouble
big trouble and there are other areas
that are in no trouble at all they watch
it on television they don't know you
know it's just not affecting them and
that's they're lucky they're lucky but
there are areas of the country that
don't have much of a problem and some
that don't have any problem they're not
gonna have a problem with hospitals but
some areas like New York California
state of Washington they're going to
have some difficulty and when we see
that coming
we're going to be in there were already
making preparation for it
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida your
trade adviser Peter Navarro have been
recommending an executive order that
would ensure that the raw materials for
pharmaceuticals and medical devices are
manufactured here in the United States
we were getting some indications last
week that you were close to signing this
executive order can you tell us what
we're looking at different things John I
don't want to say exactly right now
China has been sending us everything we
need but we're we're looking at some
alternatives yes we are looking for
alternatives and we have other places
Ireland does a lot of work for us you
know that in that world in the pharma
world a very tremendous producer and we
are looking to bring a lot more back
home I've been excuse me you know me for
a long time I've been talking about this
for many years long before I decided to
run for president I've been talking
about this and we have to be able to
take care of our country and that was
one of the many things on the list so
we'll be talking about it but we are we
are discussing it in Marco's very much
involved and Peter is very much and a
lot of people are involved and a lot of
people feel that way but we'll be
discussing are you considering not to
the United States the United States of
course
are you considering closing the land
borders in the United States and also
you know Canada has not closed it to the
United States so we're working very
closely with Canada and but they have
not closed it they have closed it to the
world but they have not closed it to the
United in the u.s. land border I don't
want to say that but we are discussing
things with Canada and we're discussing
things with Mexico quite honestly and
again the relationship is outstanding
with both outstanding we just signed our
deal u.s. MCA and the relationship is
very strong
the others have criticized you for using
the phrase Chinese virus how do you feel
about that you go to continue using that
phrase well China was putting out
information which was false that our
military gave this to them that was
false and rather than having an argument
I said I have to call it where it came
from it did come from China so I think
it's a very accurate term but no I
didn't appreciate the fact that China
was saying that our military gave it to
them our military did not give give it
to anybody
phrase stigma no I don't think so no I
think saying that our military gave it
to them creates a stigma well we're
gonna help they need help look let's
face it you know they go from having
record-breaking years this is the third
year of record-breaking year's travel
and tourism airlines everything they
were doing record numbers ordering new
planes building new hotels everything
was really hunky-dory and then one day
we hear about this rumor in China and
then we find out it's much more than a
rumor and then all of a sudden we make a
great decision to close it up early it
would be a whole different world we a
whole different world but we make a
decision to close it up to China and all
of a sudden tourism and and then we
close it up to Europe which you know
people never heard of this before I'm
not sure that that's ever been done I
know that when I made the decision to
close it to China people told me that's
never been done before but it was a
great decision we make good decisions so
I'll tell you my best decision the
people behind me are total pros all over
the world they're respected dr. Burks
Anthony who's become wears it to become
a major television star for all the
right reasons now he's just so
professional so good the people that we
have working here have been incredible
and they're totally respected
the Admiral has been incredible having
to do with the testing incredible and
he's he's viewing this as testing also
for the future we're building a platform
when we took over this platform first
thing the Admiral said was this wasn't
that designed for what we're talking
about millions of people it wasn't and
it's nobody's fault it's not like who
could have ever predicted a thing like
this but we broke it down and it's
really gonna be an incredible system and
it is now a great system I just I just
want to say these are incredible people
standing behind me they're the most
respected in the world
every country that you've mentioned
today so far has called them and they
call them all the time for advice
there's nobody better than work we have
a good job mr. president yesterday we
were being told that the payroll tax was
going to comprise the line share fiscal
stimulus right we also had the markets
fall quite dramatically yesterday and we
did that what was it about the payroll
tax did that inform your decision what
in what in what made you make that
change and when did you make tension
well I didn't make a change we'll look
at the payroll tax and we're looking at
various other forms of getting money to
people and the payroll tax is something
that I've always liked problem is it
does take a period of time you know
months before they really see something
and we don't really have months in terms
of people living you know a lot of these
you have you have people that work on
tips you have people in our it's a large
number of people it's a tremendous who
would think this right but and they do
nicely they work very hard but they work
on tips we have to take care of our
people we don't want to have people
suffering during this period it wasn't
their fault that this thing all of a
sudden was upon us so we're looking at
various we're also looking at payroll
tax you know it's possible it's also
possible we'll do a percentage of
payroll tax and then other things but
we'd like to be able to get money to
people you know we're very lucky our
country is doing so well we can do this
and we can do it easily but we have to
do it and I have to say Mitch McConnell
if you look at Mitch and Kevin and the
whole group and it's been it's been
incredible how they're reacting how
Congress is reacting how whether it's
the House or Senate how they're they're
moving and I'm talking about Democrats
and Republicans but we've had tremendous
leadership meetings and they want to see
it done right and they do want to go big
I think the only big is important I
don't think we want to go up there every
day with a different idea a different
concept oh gee let's worry about the
airlines let's do this one you have a
big problem with the cruise ship
industry
it's a industry that was setting all
sorts of Records two months ago that all
of a sudden there's nobody on the ships
okay so we have to help these these are
great industry these are going to be
taking care of people and passengers and
and for years to come and paying
tremendous taxes tremendous taxes for
years to come so we have to make sure
that this is done yes mr. president what
you refer to just a short while ago
about politics
in your address to the nation you said
we have to put politics aside stop the
partisanship and unified together this
morning you criticize the Democratic
governor of Michigan yesterday was the
Democratic governor of New York you've
attacked Obama you talked to be attacked
by in fact every day except one since
that address
you've lashed out at a Democratic leader
are are you could have set the example
they only do that one I have to respond
I watched her on television she said
something that was false and therefore I
did do that and I will continue to do
that if they're not gonna play fair
because you know they have the media on
their side I don't I just have me and if
they're not gonna play fair all gonna do
that if they are gonna play fair there's
gonna be nobody there's gonna be nobody
better than Donald Trump in terms of
bipartisanship but if if they're going
to say things that are false like the
story that was written yesterday a lot
of people I don't know somebody I think
I know who but they taped the conference
call that I had with the governor's was
a good call it was fine I assume
somebody's going to tape it they handed
it to various people and one of it was
the New York Times and The New York
Times chose to write totally
inaccurately about it it was a
disgraceful thing was bad
journalism but you know they do a lot of
bad journalism but we respond to that
and actually people get it people get it
no I want it to be bipartisan and
nobody's going to be better than me but
when they attack me or the people these
incredible people behind me I'm not
gonna let him get away with it I can't
do that okay how about one or two more
questions go ahead please well you can
do a national lockdown hopefully we're
not gonna need that we think of
everything I mean we have every idea
that you mentioned we've thought of and
you know it's a very big step that's a
step that I mean in one sense would work
it's a very big step it's something we
talk about but we haven't decided to do
that please mr. president would be the
determining factor is for you to take
that action
it would have to get to a level I just
don't think it's gonna be an action that
we're gonna take I don't think I'll talk
but Anthony all of the people standing
behind me would get together in a room
plus some additional x' and we would
make a decision but I don't think that's
a step that we're going to be one more
question you didn't have one did you
come on financial assistance to Boeing
and airplane suppliers like GE we're
looking at that we're certainly looking
at Boeing Boeing got hit hard in many
different ways Boeing never had a
problem for four years they were they
were an incredible an Incred it was
unthinkable what happened with respect
to Boeing
unthinkable probably I would consider it
the greatest company in the world prior
to a year ago now they get hit in 15
different ways and they have different
management I've met the new people
running Boeing I think it's going to be
outstanding but yeah we have to protect
Boeing we have to absolutely help help
Boeing they were doing a job they were
getting it was coming along well and
then all of a sudden this hits so
obviously when the airlines aren't doing
well Boeing is not going to be doing
well so we'll be helping Boeing yes
mr. president before you leave on what
John was saying if you've called for
people to leave politics out of this Joe
Biden said the World Health Organization
offered testing kits that they had
available to the United States and to
give it to us now we refused it we
didn't want to buy them PolitiFact says
the whn member made that offer can you
tell us well that's what I'm gonna let
I'm gonna let Tony answer that question
or some whoever's best at answering that
but I do have to say when you talk about
politics i watch the debate not too
exciting but what they said about me and
we've done a great job when you talk
about not not being bipartisan what they
said about me and if you look at swine
flu the the whole thing and I guess it
was 2009 and what they did and the
mistakes they've made they were terrible
they were horrific mistakes 17,000
people died and I'll be honest they
shouldn't be criticizing because we've
done a fantastic job the only thing we
haven't done well is to get good press
we've done a fantastic job but it hasn't
been appreciated even the the closing
down of the borders which had never been
done and not only did we close them but
we closed them early the press doesn't
like writing about it so we've done a
poor job on press relationships and you
know I guess I don't know who to blame
for that I don't know maybe I can blame
maybe I can blame ourselves so that I
will blame ourselves but I think we've
done a great job I think we've done a
poor job in terms of press relationship
but let me have somebody answer your
question I tried to cover this in the
answer when I talked about quality of
kids and our quality analysis runs
through the FDA so all of these
platforms we have asked people to submit
and we've asked States to quality
control so I mean that anybody could
submit their tests to us we don't buy
tests that haven't been quality
controlled and they show us the data
either show us the data upfront or show
us the data after they've been running
them because quality testing for our
American people is pair
to us it doesn't help to put out a test
where 50% or 47% are false positives
imagine what that would mean to the
American people imagine their level of
concern now and telling people that
their false positive we take this same
approach to HIV imagine telling someone
they were positive to HIV and they
weren't so that is our bottom line the
customer the American people first and
so any of these groups can submit their
testing kits through our regulatory
processes but without that and without a
plan we are not going to accept tests
that have not been studied by us good
answer
I'm just gonna emphasize a little bit
more on that when I became involved in
the testing world I called as senior
officials at the WH o as I could find to
understand what the situation was and as
far as I can tell from sources that
should know no one ever offered a test
that we refused what I heard - this was
this is a research grade test right
research grade test that was never
submitted was not approved not submitted
to the FDA that was supplied in tens of
thousands of quantities to a hundred
countries in the world okay so I think
there's a lot that people are saying
about this this is based on rumor and
myth nothing was offered that we refused
it was a research test that was not
approved and again there was a small
number that we have greatly surpassed in
a very short period of time so number
one nothing was offered number two it
was a bad test otherwise it was
wonderful listen thank you very much no
he made a massage
all right president Trump concluding a
rather lengthy briefing on the corona
virus and the government's response
including economic measures to lessen
some of the blow to many of the
businesses that have been hit hard as
well as individuals including the
president approving the Internal Revenue
Service to defer tax payments also
discussions going on regarding a greater
stimulus regarding some of the
industry's hardest hit let me go right
now to Stephanie ruhle our chief
economic correspondent to kind of lay
out some of the important news we heard
on that news conference Thank You Lester
it was President Trump and his Treasury
secretary Steve minuchin that gave us
sort of the most tangible takeaways
Steve minuchin who's going to be
presenting before the Senate today
among other things in the stimulus
package some sort of rescue I don't want
to call it bailout for industries
including the airline industry the hotel
industry what we don't know is will
there be any requirements around that
will there be requirements that for some
of these companies not to let go so many
workers we know that Marriott has
already furloughed workers we learned
that today something else that stood out
was this idea we had heard it from Mitt
Romney we heard it from Jason Furman an
idea to write an actual check pay the
American people Steve minuchin talked
about it and said it's more like a
business interruption payment for all of
those people who have been economically
impacted actually write them a check
immediately now he did say something
that wouldn't be for all Americans he
said for example people making a million
dollars a year wouldn't get a check but
that's the first time we've heard
something like that from Secretary of
minuchin and while the payroll tax is
still on the table it's something that
the president is interested in it
sounded like from Secretary of minuchin
that would be something possibly down
the line and what was needed immediately
was to get cash in hands of so many
Americans because remember if you don't
have any money and maybe you're sick or
your child is sick you'll still be
willing to go to work because you need
that paycheck getting paid like this
might help save us from that yeah and
certainly he stressed several times this
is an amine
it's solution they're trying to come up
with right now to get that money to
people who are already hurting because
I'm all this Stephanie thank you let me
turn to kristen welker
she's at the White House a number of a
number of your questions the president
responded to Kristen what sent out to
you well a couple of takeaways Lester in
addition to everything that Steph just
talked about President Trump today
essentially announcing expanded testing
also expanded telemedical services so
essentially people can get medical
services from their own homes
president Trump essentially
acknowledging that these robust actions
are necessary because there is a concern
about the death toll increasing from the
coronavirus now a couple of questions
that we still have here to what extent
is the federal government going to help
States as they try to make sure that
their hospitals are stocked with the
equipment ventilators hospital beds that
they need for example president Trump
not getting specific about that but
leaving the option on the table to take
some type of robust executive action to
make sure that that happens the
president though also talking about
expanded mobile units so that people can
get treatment and also get tested now
this does come against the backdrop of
Treasury Secretary Stephen ushion on
Capitol Hill trying to get that big
bailout package passed I asked what the
timeline of that looked like is this
something that they could get done by
the end of the week and that price tag
that we've seen that 850 billion dollar
price tag they wouldn't confirm those
specifics but the president saying we
want to go big we don't want to do this
in a piecemeal fashion we want to help
industries that are hurting right now
like the airline industry like the
hospitality industry so they are working
on multiple fronts to address not only
the health issues but the economic
issues I asked the president about
recession he again didn't back away from
that term but said his focus right now
is essentially on helping businesses and
the economy to rebound
Lester Kristen thanks let me bring in
our medical correspondent dr. John
Torres
it was clearly reporters in the room all
of us are hungry for the answers when is
this over when do we peak when do we
know this is working and we couldn't
get an answer and obviously this is it's
a very difficult thing to get an answer
for but what was your takeaway in terms
of the ability to keep the American
public engaged and to understand how
important these measures are and I think
that's one of the important points they
made here is that it's really hard to
give you a specific answer and they were
hesitant to do that because they know if
they set a certain number of days that
you know 30 or 45 days later we hold
their feet to the fire and said you said
at this point this would be better and
it's not necessarily so they know this
is going to be a moving target they know
it's something to have to keep a firm
eye on but there are a few things they
made specific points about number one
they said testing prevention and
supplies are the one things are working
on in form of supplies what they said to
construction companies which I thought
was pretty interesting its construction
companies please donate your n95 masks
to hospitals around you and don't order
any more right now because they are
absolutely gonna need those and they
also told everybody if you have a
doctor's appointment if you have a
dentist appointment right now if it's
elective don't do it hold it off because
we want you to stay home so certainly
call your doctors or your dentist's
office and say can I do that can I hold
it off but what they're trying to do is
get everybody to understand that these
measures they've had these guidelines
for the next couple weeks or something
that everybody needs to take very
seriously and they pointed out a few
groups saying it you know you don't want
to go to bars if you're not working you
don't want to go out and about with
friends you want to stay home so we can
get to sunder control alright dr. John
Torres thank you very much life in this
country changing day by day we can show
you a picture right now of what Times
Square in New York looks like here in
New York City it's Tuesday
and there's barely a car on the street
normally that's one of the most bustling
spots in the country filled with people
but things have changed and of course
we'll continue to watch all this while